http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~nn/csc309-20085/guide/pointbase/docs/html/htmlfiles/dev_dataobjectsFIN.html
Objects:
user
schema
	table
		column
		row
	view
	stored procedure
	trigger






DML: data manipulation language. For rows
	Select, insert, update, delete
	
DDL: data definition language. For tables
	Create, alter, drop, truncate
	
DCL: data control language. Secure database object  attaining roles
	Grant, revoke, deny
	
TCL: transactional control language
	Begin-commit-rolback transaction
	
Cascading referential integrity constraint
	They are foreign key constraints. Triggered when related id deleted or modified.
	Set Null: when deleted or updated it sets to null
	Cascade: if id deleted, related rows also deleted, if changed also changed
	Set Default: when deleted or modified, set to default value
	No Action: this is default action. When deleted or updated an error will be rised
	
Where/Having clauses
	Where: 
		filter individual rows
		Must be used before group by (therefore)
		Can be used with select, update, delete
	Having:
		Filter groups
		Must be used after group by (therefore). And slower in this manner
		Can be used with select
	In i query first use where to filter, then having to group
	
Prime
	A table can only have one
	Accept no null values
	Must be unique
	Creates unique clustered index 
	
Normalization: Is a database design to
	Reduce redundancy
	Dividing tables and defining relationships between them
	The objective is to isolate data so taht additions, deletions and modifications of a field can be made in just one table and then propagate through the rest of the database via the defined relationships
	
Normalization forms
	-Eliminate repeating groups: make table for preset string values
	-Eliminate redundant data: make table for multi selects
	-Eliminate columns not dependent on key: If attributes do not contribute to a description of the key, remove them to a sparate table
		BCNF (boyce-codd normal form): If there are serious dependencies between candidate key attributes, separate them
	-Isolate independent multiple relationships: no table may contain two or more 1:n or n:m relationships that are not directly related
	-Isolate semantically related multiple relationships: 
		ONF (optimal normal form): a model limited to only simple (elemental) facts, as expressed in object role model notation
		DKNF (domain-key normal form): a model free from all modification anomalies.
	These steps are cumulative. To optaine 3th step, you must fulfill first two
	
Cursor
	A cursor is a database object used by applications to manipulate data in a set on a row-by-row basis, instead of the typical SQL commands that operate on all the rows in the set at one time.
	In order to work with a cursor we need to perform some steps in the following order:
		Declare cursor
		Open cursor
		Fetch row from the cursor Process fetched row Close cursor
		Deallocate cursor

DBCC commands: database consistency checker
	DBCC CHECKDB – Ensures that tables in the DB and the indexes are correctly linked.
	DBCC CHECKALLOC – To check that all pages in a DB are correctly allocated.
	DBCC CHECKFILEGROUP – Checks all tables file group for any damage.
	
Linked server
	You can query from one server to another sql server and even create combine query
	
Collation: data sort and comperition
	Case sensitivity
	Accent sensitivity: áó
	Kana sensitivity
	Width sensitivity: single byte or double byte
	
Nolock
	Multiple process can access data at the same time
	Select statements have shared lock. So they can read at the same time without nolock.
	
Update_statistics
	Used when a large processing of data has occured (deletion, modification, bulk copy) 
	Updates the indexes on these tables accordingly
	
Sub-query: Nested select
	Properties
		A subquery must be enclosed in the parenthesis.
		The subquery must be put in the right hand of the comparison operator, and
		subquery cannot contain an ORDER-BY clause.
		A query can contain more than one sub-queries.
	Types
		Single-row subquery, where the subquery returns only one row.
		Multiple-row subquery, where the subquery returns multiple rows,.and
		Multiple column subquery, where the subquery returns multiple columns.
		
SQL Profiler
	Monitoring tool
	
Authentication models
	Windows mode
	Mixed mode (windows + sql)
	Changed from sql enterprise manager > tools > sql server configuration properties > security page
	
User names and passwords store
	Masterdb > sysxlogins
	
SQL Server Agent
	Full-function scheduling engine.
	Allows you to schedule your own jobs and scripts
	
Log shipping
	Is the process of automating the backup of database and transaction log files on a production sql server, and then restoring them onto a standby server.
	
Rename DB
	Sp_renamedb 'oldname', 'newname'

Replication
	Types
		Snapshot: 
			Best used for replicating data that changes infrequently and holds most up to date values.
		Transactional
			Ýnitial snapshot is taken and sent to subscribers. And when a change has been done, that  change send to subscribers immidiately
		Merge
			Sending complete changes to subscribers when they are online, at a specific time etc
